## 📅 Week-2
## Introduction to Linear Regression

A regression is a statistical technique that relates a dependent variable to one or more independent (explanatory) variables.It can be utilized to assess the strength of the relationship between variables and for modeling the future relationship between them.
In regression there are two types of variables: a dependent variable and one or more independent  variables. 


It can be utilized to assess the strength of the relationship between variables and for modeling the future relationship between them. The dependent variable can be seen as the state, target, or final goal we study and try to predict. 

And the independent variables, also known as explanatory variables, can be seen as the causes of those states. The independent variables X and the dependent  variable is notated by Y.
The key point in the regression is that our dependent value should be continuous and cannot be a discrete value.
However, the independent variable, or variables, can be measured on either a categorical or continuous measurement scale.

#### Types of regression models 

Simple regression: regression is when one independent variable is used to estimate a dependent variable.
- Predict co2 emmision vs Engine Size of all cars.
- Independent Variable(X):Engine Size
- Dependent Variable(Y):co2emmision

Multiple regression.: When more than one independent variable is present the process is called multiple linear regression.
- Predict co2 emmision vs Engine Size and Cylinders of all cars.
- Independent Variable(X):Engine Size,Cylinder
- Dependent Variable(Y):co2emmision
#### Application of Linear Regression
- Sales forecasting
- Satisfaction analysis
- Price estimation
- Employment income

#### Regression Algorithm

- Ordinal regression
- Poison regression
- Fast forest quantile regression
- Linear, Lasso, Polynomial, Stepwise, Ridge Regression
- Bayesian Linear Regression
- Neural Network Regression
- Decision forest Regression
- KNN
## Simple Linear Regression
Linear regression is the approximation of a linear model used to describe the relationship between two or more variables. 
In simple linear regression, there are two variables, a dependent variable and an independent variable. 
The key point in the linear regression is that our dependent value should be continuous and cannot be a discrete value.
However, the independent variables can be measured on either a categorical or continuous measurement scale. There are two types of linear regression models. 
They are simple regression and multiple regression. 
Simple linear regression is when one independent variable is used to estimate a dependent variable. 

## Evaluation Metrics in Regression Models

- Mean Absolute Error:the error of the model is the difference between the data points and the trend line generated by the algorithm. 

- Mean Squared Error: is the mean of the absolute value of the errors 

- Root Mean Squared Error: is the mean of the squared error.

## Lab: Simple Linear Regression
#### Predicting the co2 emission of a car
- In this lab, we learn how to use scikit-learn library to implement Simple linear regression.
- We download a dataset that is related to fuel consumption and Carbon dioxide emission of cars. 
- Then, we split our data into training and test sets, create a model using training set, evaluate your model using test set, and finally use model to predict unknown value.

## Lab: Multiple Linear Regression

#### Predicting the co2 emission of a car
- In this lab, we learn how to use scikit-learn library to implement Multiple linear regression. We again use the Carbon dioxide emission dataset to build a model, Evaluate the model, and finally use model to predict unknown value.
## End of Module Review & Evaluation
